Previously on The Passage...
- What now?
- We go back.
Get Amy and get
you guys out of here.
Amy is my calling.
My job is to protect that child
and all the promise
she holds out to the world.
Martinez. Washington has
approved your security proposal.
Cages now require two keys
used simultaneously
on separate panels.
Does Fanning ever talk to you
in his dreams?
The last thing he told me was.
"We have work to do."
Carter gave me the message.
Said we'd already changed
the world.
- What did you mean by that?
- You'll see.
- I don't want to die.
- So don't.
The next step
is right in front of you,
-you just have to take it.
What Fanning wants
is for you to believe
the worst about yourself.
Don't buy it.
I don't want to be alone.
You don't have to be.
You can go anywhere you want.
Mama?
Ain't nothing so bad
we can't fix it.
What is this for?
- Light your way.
Hello, Amy.
So, we're really gonna stick
with the silent treatment, huh?
How'd you do all this, Amy?
This is incredible detail.
You got the homey feel,
you got this creak in the floor
and the coup de grâce
is that scent of bacon
just wafting through the air.
I've never seen
anything like that.
What do you want?
I want to know how a little kid
like you did all this.
That's easy. I had help.
Oh, from Carter. Right?
Yeah, he's a good guy.
He definitely has a soft spot
for you, doesn't he?
Carter says I'm special.
That I'm different.
That's because you are.
He also said
you would try to hurt me.
That is not true.
I'll tell you something
that is true.
I wasn't nice to Carter
when he was turning.
- Why?
- Because when you become
what I am and Carter is,
it takes moxie,
and I had to make sure that
he could tap into that power,
that he was ready.
Ready for what?
For what's coming next.
The end is near, my dear.
I don't do riddles, dude.
Just say what you mean.
All right, fair enough.
Amy Bellafonte,
I think that you are
truly amazing,
and, if you'd let me,
I'd like to be your friend.
Lungs are clear.
Heart rate's slow and steady.
What's happening?
The girl is sick.
Well, that's too bad.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Hey, Clark Richards.
We're coming to the end here.
And the only way you make it out
alive is with me.
You had no right to authorize
this move without consulting me.
Well, that's some magical
thinking. I'm the director
of this project.
I hired you, remember?
Why are you doing this?
No one is more disappointed
than I am.
We all thought
she was proof of the concept.
But it turns out she's no
different from the others,
-so she goes to 4B.
- She's a little girl. It's not right.
Listen to me. After Elizabeth
died, I went back to the lab.
And I realized that-that
we could treat this like HIV.
We could alter the cells
that the virus targets.
- I could be close...
- "You could be close"?
"You could be close"?
Do you even hear yourself?
If I were you, I'd be sick
of gambling with people's lives.
I have fought for every single
one of my patients.
What about your coworkers?
Simmons, Paulson, Pet.
And poor Elizabeth Lear.
It's over for you, Nichole.
Amy's not the answer.
I'm rebooting Project Noah.
I'll be making
an announcement shortly.
I'll talk to the director of the
DoD and see about wrangling you
a position as the head
of security here.
- You'll report only to me.
- That'd be great, sir.
I appreciate your taking
an interest in my career.
Teachable moment here, Martinez,
from a management perspective:
know the limitations
of your staff.
To be fair, sir,
it did look like we were close.
The girl had all of the features
and none of the bugs.
Well, they don't give you
six points for getting the ball
just to the two yard line.
Thank you. Thank you, everyone,
for gathering together here
on such short notice.
I'll be brief.
Your work here has been
nothing short of heroic.
I want you to know
that your government sees you.
That I see you.
But we've come to an end
for most of you.
As of today,
you're all relieved of duty.
You can go back to your lives
and your families.
I've authorized bonuses
for everyone
as a thank-you
for your service.
And I know how last days go, so
you have my blessing to party,
but let's keep that
to off-shift hours, okay?
Thanks for your service, fellas.
What the hell's
going on, Guilder?
I'm trying to save
this sinking ship.
You're making
a terrible mistake.
Look, Project Noah has ceased
to function competently.
Now, you can blame it
on whatever you want:
battle fatigue... I don't care.
But I'm not gonna squander what
potential this program has left.
These things are planning
something, Guilder.
This is the wrong time
to cut everybody loose.
Thank you for your service.
Now go pack your bags.
I have to get back in the lab
and figure out how to make
this anti-viral work.
And we need to get Amy
out of here.
How do we override?
Guilder.
How long do we have
until Amy turns?
A Wrinkle in Time, huh?
That's a great book.
It's phenomenal worldbuilding.
Can I see it?
Don't.
I am not here to hurt you.
I am here
just to get to know you.
I don't want to know you.
- I want the agent.
- I know.
He's a good friend to you.
But he's not here.
You know, me and my friends,
we're like family.
And we talk
and we, we share things,
and lately, all the talk
has been about you.
I'm never joining your family.
I hear you, but
thing is, things are changing.
I know you can feel it, right?
Hmm. And when they change
all the way,
you're gonna need someone
who understands.
Can you just
get out of my house?
We're coming to the end,
my friend.
Things are gonna
start to get scary.
And if you decide
that you need me,
you just give a holler,
and I'll come running.
I promise.
Oh, my God.
Anthony.
I was wondering
when you were going to grace me
with your presence.
Did you get lonely?
You feel like playing
for the team now?
Stay away from the kid.
Are you seriously trying
to intimidate me?
I see what you're doing to her,
and she's better off dead.
She's not your 12th.
Says my reluctant 11th.
You're a monster.
No. I'm just deeply sad
and annoyed.
I did not recruit her
through some schoolyard fence,
I did not put her
in this position
and I did not give her the shot.
But she  is turning.
And I can help her
just like I helped you.
You only help yourself.
I hate what you made me,
- and I will never be like you.
- Then don't be like me.
Be like you.
Be like The Fonz for all I care.
But if that girl doesn't turn,
then none of us
get out of these cages.
We need 12.
Amy will turn.
And she will feed,
and you will feed again.
And that is the universe
as I've ordered it.
So you, you wipe your nose...
...and you leave me to grieve.
Richards, what the hell
are you doing here?
Not dead. Sorry.
What are you trying
to accomplish?
Amy's sick, you idiot.
I miss the old days,
when we hung people for treason.
Just get us in the elevator.
Unlock this.
Good?
Let's go. Come on.
Hey. When you get down
to the cellblocks,
make sure all the virals are
where they're supposed to be.
Okay. Why?
Just do it.
And not just on the monitors,
all right?
Get eyes on all of them.
How did she get out?
I don't know.
Let's just bring her back in.
Any signs of her?
Affirmative.
I got eyes on her.
Should I send backup,
-just in case?
Let's not make this more
of a scene than it is.
- Okay, but, Clark...
- I know.
I've got this.
Hang on a sec.
No, you can't make me
go back there.
All right, Shauna,
let's just talk.
I hate this place!
I keep having these nightmares!
It's the same guy every time,
and it's so real.
We'll get you back to Dr. Sykes.
She'll get you a prescription.
There are no meds that can fix
what is happening to me.
I just want
to get you back safe.
There's
a 12-foot razor-wire fence
surrounding the entire property,
you know.
Snipers with M40 rifles could
pick you off at any moment.
Then there's
the pressure pad sensors,
infrared cameras,
not to mention
the GPS chip in your neck.
There's no way out.
Please don't make me
go back there.
Look,
why don't we just go grab
a bite to eat?
What?
Grey shouldn't have clearance.
Banks, do me a favor.
Can you check on Lawrence Grey
in holding?
Guns down!
Don't be stupid!
Do what he says!
- Get that door open.
- All right.
Get it open now!
- Where do you want these guys?
- Conference room.
We'll be in the lab.
Let's go. Follow.
Go now.
You, too.
I have to take a second look
at these DNA sequences.
These are Amy's vitals.
Yeah, she's stable for now,
but there's no telling
for how long.
As soon as I finish,
I'll show you how to make up
an anti-viral infusion for her.
Sure.
Amy.
Sweetheart.
Can you hear me?
Hi.
How did you get in here?
I told you, kiddo...
I got skills.
I found you.
How you feeling?
My head hurts.
Okay.
First, let's get you out
of these restraints
and get you to the lab.
No.
No? What do you mean, no?
It's too dangerous.
Thanks for picking me up.
Where you headed?
Telluride.
What about you?
Same.
Look at that.
Must be some divine intervention
happening.
I need eyes on Lawrence Grey
right now.
He's not in his holding cell.
He's very dangerous.
Um, why exactly
are we worried about Grey?
He's a sweep.
Just do what I asked you to do.
...I got him, sir.
West corridor, headed toward
the communications center.
Grey!
- You're too late!
- The hell are you doing?!
What I was told to do.
By Fanning?
It's his show now.
It's all his show now.
- What's his plan?
- His plan
is to change the world.
We-we each had a job to do.
What-what was it
Babcock asked you to do?
It's insane that we're here.
Being the boss has its perks.
What can I get you?
- I will be getting chicken fajitas and a burger.
- Okay.
Don't judge.
And a beer.
And for you?
Uh...
stack of pancakes with, uh,
bacon and a coffee.
- Coming right up.
- Breakfast for dinner.
You're an enigma,
Clark Richards.
Oh, yeah?
How's that?
I mean, look at you.
Got this coiffed hair,
the posture, the gun.
What senator made you?
My dad's a judge, actually.
So, yeah.
Third Circuit, Court of Appeals.
I have no idea what that means.
It's a big deal.
Federal.
And you're the perfect son,
right?
Always follows the rules.
Joined up. Works for the Man.
I'm the, uh...
the black sheep, actually.
My sister is, uh...
is high up
in the Justice Department.
My younger brother's
a brain surgeon.
And I...
Work at Project Noah,
babysitting me.
Hey, tell me something real.
Something you never say
out loud.
Nothing mundane or basic, okay?
Tell me who you are.
I have a degree
in creative writing.
- Mm.
- Fiction, mostly.
A little poetry.
Oh.
Haikus?
- Sonnets?
- Stop. Oh, stop.
- Is it free verse?
I thought this was a safe space.
Limericks.
And then I joined the Marines.
And now I do this.
There's a piece
of that story missing,
but I'm gonna let it go.
I'd read your poems.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
If you wanted me to.
The virus is just too smart.
It embeds itself
in a target cell,
and it replicates too fast.
You can't slow it down?
No. No, this is us
trying something else.
If every virus has a key
and every target cell
in our body has a lock...
You want to change the locks.
I know it's crazy, but
if you alter the target cell,
then you've essentially locked
the virus out.
But that won't reverse
Amy's symptoms.
No. No, the abilities
and the immunity will remain.
But if we can stop the virus
before it hits the limbic brain,
she won't turn.
It's a long shot.
It's our only shot.
You came back.
What's happening to me?
I don't feel right.
You're turning, Amy.
Pretty soon,
you'll be just like me.
Though I have a hunch you'll
have Shauna Babcock's luck
and get to keep
your pretty face.
What about the feelings?
I feel everyone in Project Noah.
I'm feeling the agent right now.
He's scared.
That part doesn't go away,
I'm afraid.
We're cursed to feel too much.
But they don't all have
to be bad feelings, Amy.
There's... good stuff, too.
Good stuff like what?
Why the hell does Lawrence Grey
have unilateral security access?
I don't know
what you're talking about.
I'd never authorize that.
Well, he destroyed
our communications hub,
so someone authorized it.
We're on an island out here.
Thanks for that.
Richards,
I would never give Lawrence Grey
a security clearance.
He gave Elizabeth Lear
the virus, for crying out loud.
He should be in a cell
somewhere!
While you were revoking
my clearance, he got out.
Give me the codes.
I need to override
the security system.
I-I can't.
Oh!
I'm gonna need a better answer
than that.
The DoD, they-they sent out
a new security advisor.
He reset all the protocols
at my request.
What's his name?
Martinez.
Where is he?
He's upstairs. He's waiting
for his ride back to D.C.
Ah.
Uh, ow, ow. Y-You're hurting me,
you're hurting me.
I need your retinas, Grey.
Or would you rather
I just popped those eyeballs out
and leave you here instead?
Oh, we should go.
Hey. You're awake.
- Hey.
- You gotta let me untie you.
- No.
Amy, I'm not afraid of you.
I know you would never hurt me.
- But I don't feel good.
- Okay. Okay.
Let me call Dr. Sykes,
but you're gonna be fine.
She's so close
to solving this thing.
Can you hold on for me?
What's wrong? What is it?
Are you gonna throw up?
What does that mean?
Nothing.
You're gonna be fine.
- Shh, shh, shh.
Shh.
What are we doing?
I'm showing you what's possible.
'Cause all those things
that you love,
and all those things that make
you happy... they're still here.
Being a viral doesn't
have to be scary or evil.
It can also be magical.
Winston hurt people.
Uh-huh.
I don't want to hurt people.
I don't want to hurt the agent.
Oh, you don't have to.
We all get one, Amy.
We all get to have
somebody else.
And keep them with us forever.
He could be yours.
Carter says I shouldn't believe
anything you say.
And yet you still came
to see me.
Why do you think that is?
What do you say we enjoy this
beautiful day instead, huh?
Hey, look at that.
It's just like my old one.
Yes, it is.
Is this a trick?
It's a bike, Amy.
Come on.
Even I couldn't ruin a bike.
What do you say?
Want to give this puppy a ride?
Come on.
Saddle up, kid.
What's the blood for?
When we finish the anti-viral,
we'll test it on her blood.
Hope it does what we need it to.
Sykes. She's burning up.
- Is there anything we can do?
- She's getting what she needs
from the IV for the moment,
but the anti-viral
is the only thing
that can save her.
Hey.
Gotta keep the faith.
She just has to hold on
a little bit longer.
There's something else.
She lost a tooth.
Okay. She's in the turn.
There's nothing we can do
but keep moving forward.
But you never considered
bailing?
Well, it's not like
I've packed my bags.
All your black shirts and boots?
But a couple of times, yeah.
I've thought about it.
So then why didn't you?
Duty.
You never quit until
the mission's complete.
Yeah, but you said
how rough it is,
how it eats away
at your humanity.
That might have been the
excitement of my second coffee.
Come on, man.
You almost admitted to a
feeling. Don't walk it back.
I know.
- I'm super endearing.
I'm not gonna lie. You are.
I knew you were a good guy.
Basically.
But now I can see a little bit
of the poet underneath the...
...military thing,
which is your armor.
Like you're always ready
for an attack.
The judge was a drunk.
He'd laugh,
make you feel like you're...
his best friend in the world...
and then... smack.
I know that syndrome.
Hey.
We've been talking about me
this whole time.
What's your story?
Imagine if we got out of here
right now
and then we never looked back.
Shauna.
You make enough mistakes,
every idea you have
seems stupid.
But you just never know, right?
I mean, why bother otherwise?
She's here.
Copy that, two-five.
Transport as soon as possible.
I didn't have a choice.
You always have a choice, Clark.
Always.
Guess I'll tell you
my story another time.
Fontes.
You were in charge of logistics
when Guilder got here, right?
- Mm-hmm.
- Did you know a Martinez,
the security wonk you've been
working with?
I met some of his uniforms,
and a couple of body men,
but no suits.
These were the guys he had
with him, right?
- Yeah.
- Just uniforms?
Yeah, why?
I'm try...
What'd I tell you
about the eyeballs?
I'm trying to find this guy.
Nobody's laid eyes on him.
Well, maybe he's CIA.
Sometimes you don't notice
those guys,
even when they're right
in front of you.
They're like ghosts.
You're coming with me.
This guy look familiar? Huh?
Your security advisor is
a serial rapist and a murderer.
And viral number two.
Do you have any idea
what you've done?
You just gonna leave him there?
It's what he deserves.
Let him think about
what he's done.
So what do we do know?
These virals have
designed the security protocols.
They took
the communications down.
We can thank Grey for that.
These things are trying
to get out.
Okay. So how do we stop them?
Well, killing them's not
an option right now.
I got an idea.
And that won't go
into Amy's cell, right?
That's right.
All right.
I'm gonna head upstairs.
Non-essentials need to evacuate.
I'll round up some people
I can trust.
That's Grey's badge.
Just in case.
Do you ever think about
that night at the diner?
Of course I do.
You already know that.
- Shauna, what's going on?
- Didn't it feel like
- the beginning of something?
- Don't do this.
You want a bloodbath?
That's not who you are.
Who I am is who you made me.
You put me in a cage
and I want out.
That's not happening.
None of you are getting out.
Sure we are.
Because people like Grey
and Guilder and you help us.
I'm not helping you.
You stayed my execution.
You killed Paulson.
You lied to Nichole
about the dreams.
Clark, you have helped me.
Now, I'm saying this
for the last time.
If you want safe passage,
you need me.
You're right.
I do care.
But I don't care about you.
I care about the Vegas girl
with the crappy life,
the one who couldn't get a win
no matter how hard she tried.
I care about the girl
from that diner.
But you are not
that girl anymore.
You are a monster.
And if I get the chance,
I will kill you.
Tisdale, Smith,
round up anyone
who isn't drunk or expecting
some imaginary bonus.
I want soldiers
at every entrance and exit
and the elevator to 4B.
Those doors open,
you see something
that doesn't look human,
shoot to kill.
- Yes, sir.
If the anti-viral works,
Amy's cells will block
Fanning's virus.
We'll have done it.
If not...
No, don't even say it.
Yes! Yes!
Oh. Okay, so, um,
now we-we-we prepare.
- Um, we prepare a dosage for Amy.
- Right.
- And then we duplicate it.
- Mm-hmm.
We get it to the CDC.
I mean, this is...
Oh, my God, this is amazing.
Oh, God.
Oh, no.
Her fever's spiking.
How long is it gonna take?
Um, just a few minutes.
Uh, do you have ice packs?
I need to cool her down.
Yeah, down the hall. There's
a supply closet to the right.
What?
Grey! No!
- No, Grey, no!
No! No!
I'm sorry.
Grey, please. Please.
Untie me, help me.
Uh, I-I can't do that, sir.
Of course you can.
It's an order. Do it!
No, you'll-you'll-you'll be free
soon enough, sir.
The hell does that mean?
What are you doing to me?
I'm sorry to invade
your personal space,
but I, um... I need that.
Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
Doesn't matter.
They're all asleep anyway.
Not for long, sir.
Please, son, don't do this!
The thing is,
I... I don't have a choice.
And neither did you. No, no.
Grey!
You'll kill us all!
What is this?
This is something extraordinary
and beautiful
that only a few of us
in the whole universe
have ever seen before.
I don't feel good. I'm tired.
I know you're tired.
You're gonna feel better soon.
Everything we've gone through
has led up
to this moment in time.
What do I have to do?
You have to go through, Amy.
You can come out the other side,
and you're reborn as one of us,
or you can die in that tunnel.
She's fading. Where are you?
Grey locked me in the lab.
- What?
- Richards is working on it.
What about Amy?
What happens if she...?
At a certain point,
this is out of our hands.
With Carter and Elizabeth Lear,
it-it became clear
that they had a choice to make.
What do you mean?
What kind of choice?
To join Fanning
and become a viral or...
Or what?
Or die.
I know this is terribly
difficult, but I think...
I think we both know that she
doesn't want to be with Fanning.
Okay.
Hey.
I know we made a promise
to each other.
You don't leave me,
I don't leave you.
But if you come
to a fork in the road...
...you can break
your promise to me.
If you have to...
...you can let go.
I love you, kid,
no matter what.
What are we not gonna do?
Panic.
Everyone says I'm special,
but I'm afraid I'm a monster.
I know who you are.
You're like... the sun.
Your life is important.
You are important.
You're wicked smart and strong
and fast and funny and tough.
You can do anything you want
with your life.
- You just did that.
- I just did that.
You can do anything you want
with your life.
That is not my opinion.
That is a fact.
Amy?
What are you doing?
Amy, don't do this. No!
Hey!
Hey you.
- Amy.
Hey, it's all right.
We have to go.
No. No. No!
Here we go.
Clark, the cages are open.
Stay in the lab. Hide.
I'm on my way.
Go to the armory. Get me
everything we have right now.
Come on.
Wolgast!
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org